# Course 201 Class Fourteen "Psychological Safety"

This was a very good article and really brings into focus how far the use cases for data go beyond what the average person thinks. I found Google's results to be consistent with my own experiences outside of the military. In the military people did what they were ordered to do and it didn't matter if you contributed or not.

But from my own experiences I have found groups to perform better if everyone has a chance to give their input in a safe setting. I have also found they perform better if people help the weakest link in the group without making them feel bad for needing the help.

I have been in both types of groups descibed in the article the one where they work alone more than as a team and the one where everyone gets together after work to hang out. I don't have a preference for either and feel I perfom well in either scenario if I understand the task at hand. The first more solo group has some benefits like more free time to do what you want with your family, but also comes with the knowledge your team is less likely to have your back as the interpersonal bonds have not developed. The group with more developed bonds tends to take more time from your day outside of work and they may not be an issue for single employees but some with families will take issue with it.

From a companies perspective i definately understand why they would want this data and how they might use that data and other data gathered about employees to try and increase the output and innovation of teams they assign.

## Resources

[What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team](https://web.archive.org/web/20220202080115/https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html?_r=0)

## Return to the Table of Contents

[Table of Contents](https://todd75.github.io/reading-notes/)
